Long-term all jobs can be automated.
Question is, do we decide to automate
the job or do we prefer a human being to
do it?
>> This is Roman Yampolskiy, an AI safety
professor who spent 15 years studying
one question. Can we control AI?
>> [snorts]
>> I don't think we can. If we build them,
there is nothing we can do.
Artificial general intelligence means
the system can do anything a human can
do. So, if we live in a world where that
is true, let's say in 2 years,
traditional [music]
paths to accumulate wealth, just having
a job, may not be available.
But, there are always other
opportunities. We'll still have more
time to [music]
>> You made this prediction that by 2030,
99% of jobs are going away. We're in
2026, how are doing so far?
>> I'm doing great. I don't know about the
rest of you.
The prediction is about capabilities,
but technology will have to make it
happen. It doesn't mean we'll decide to
actually
do that. Deployment through economy is
very different from having technological
capabilities to do something.
Today, we have self-driving cars,
but we also have millions of drivers.
>> That's true, but I feel like with the
self-driving, the the technology is not
yet there 100% in terms of safety. Yes,
it can do it within a city like San
Francisco. Once they go outside like
highways, they're still not sure. So,
when talking about I have a lot of
people who watching who are maybe CPAs,
managers, product managers, designers.
And Anthropic released this. Uh have you
seen the the stats that AIs capable to
do like 20% of their jobs, but there is
still a lot of areas where AI is not
capable. So, according to you, how much
can AI do now for a typical white-collar
worker?
>> So, there is no typical one. Some
occupations, basically, if you're a
white-collar worker, you're doing simple
manipulation on a computer. For some of
them, it's gone. It's going to be
>> Already?
>> Uh so many jobs. You don't buy tickets
from an agent anymore.
That used to be a human job. Thousands
of people sold
>> Yeah, but that's not it. That's
internet. What about like AI?
>> Well, I'm saying technology can replace
certain jobs completely the moment
technology comes. Right now I think
things like translation for example, I
can fully automate translation for many
languages. Uh there are some esoteric
languages and there are needs for
political translators maybe.
But for many of those jobs there is no
future. I wouldn't suggest majoring in
Spanish.
>> Yeah. Yeah, translators done. Okay, who
else?
>> Uh junior programmers, we see huge
reduction in need for people who are
just graduating college or looking for a
co-op who need to
uh basically be trained to at some point
in the future be software engineers,
system architects. Right now all we know
is
C, C++, that's not enough.
>> Mhm.
>> We have I think 28% drop in
uh co-op placement for our department.
>> Oh, wow. So you see it within your
department already.
What do you tell them? Those people who
are unable to find jobs?
>> Unfortunately, we don't tell them what
they need to hear. We tell them try to
writing your CV, try to you know,
learning additional skills. But reality
is
by the time they graduate, those are
usually first year co-op students.
They've been in the program for a couple
years. By the time they graduate in
another two years it's going to be much
worse.
>> Well, if you could talk to them right
now, someone comes to you a student and
says, you know, I've learned C++ for two
years, I can't find a job, what do I do?
>> So some of them decided they'll have
more protection if they had hardware
components. If they do engineering and
on top of computer science, electrical
engineering, nano engineering, it would
give them a little more protection.
>> For a couple years or
>> For a couple years. It's all question of
so we got cognitive labor automated and
physical labor comes as soon as we get
the robots deployed, sooner than 3
years.
>> You give 3 years till I have a robot in
my household.
>> I think
again there is a big difference between
you can buy it today and it's
commonplace. So you can buy a flying car
today.
>> Yeah.
>> We don't see flying cars. It's the same
with humanoid robots. You can buy one,
it's expensive, but while scale
production to millions of units in a
couple years.
>> Wow, that actually gives me hope because
I'm so tired of
making doing dishes and and laundry and
everything. Okay, translators done.
Junior progress. It's interesting how
junior programmers are done but senior
programmers are not but this like being
a junior programmer is a path to
becoming someone senior. So how do they
progress without having job experience?
>> That's exactly the problem we're facing.
They
don't have any future.
And when we talk about seniors are fine
right now, we're talking about very
short term. Long term, all jobs can be
automated.
Question is do we decide to automate the
job or do we prefer a human being to do
it?
>> Who decides? Is it the company?
>> Consumer.
If I want human podcaster to interview
me, I'll come to you. If I want a robot,
I'll go to a robot.
>> Is this when we see when you see layoffs
like we're seeing Meta's about to lay
off a lot of people.
We we saw Jack Dorsey's
message blocks but I think he's rehiring
people. But also I was just talking to
Gary V.
He's a I think he has 700 people in his
company. He thinks it's really dumb to
fire people right now just because and I
see it in my vibration too. If 35 people
can 2x my output then I just hire more
to like 5x my output. And if my
competitor thinks the same then it it
makes no sense to fire people right now
just because
a human plus 10 AI agents
is way better than you know, not having
that human.
>> And right now that's the case, that one
human manages them and improves the
productivity. But if you can replace
that human with a model you get for 20
bucks a month, are you going to pay that
human?
>> The thing is there is no such model
right now.
>> Right now? Like again.
>> decisions, has taste, understands me.
>> about today. Today is not interesting.
You can look outside your window and see
today. We want to know what's coming.
>> Mhm. And how fast? How soon is it
coming?
>> It's hyper-exponential. It's faster than
we anticipated. Prediction markets had
always happen around 2045. Then it
collapsed. Then it's what you said,
2030, 2028.
>> Okay, so is that most of the jobs that
you still feel like, for example,
agriculture? When you see it on Look at
Anthropic's report, agriculture is
nowhere near being replaced with AI.
When you say all the jobs, is it really
all the jobs or just specific sectors?
>> know nothing about agriculture.
>> Okay.
>> But if you have humanoid robots, that's
physical labor, so that's the next wave.
First you have cognitive labor. Anything
you can do on a computer, any symbol
manipulation.
>> Yeah.
>> That's where you're going to see it
happen. As soon as we get to human
level, I see no reason to pay a human if
the results are the same and you can get
drop-in employee, essentially.
>> Couple years.
You think?
>> It seems quite possible. Okay, I'll give
you that. What difference does it make?
So you're saying in 5 years all the jobs
are gone. Yay, great. Go to college for
10 years to become a doctor.
>> No, that's exactly. If I know that we
have 3 years, then my next question
would be, do you think it's our last
chance to build wealth for our families?
If all the jobs are gone, we're not
making money, and we end up in a world
where, you know, that that's it. As many
you own that much stocks, you own that
much cash cuz you can't make more cash.
>> Roman just described AI systems that can
out-plan and out-create humans. I want
to show you what that actually looks
like when it hits a real tool.
Hicksfield just launched their own
original series. It's called Arena Zero,
10 minutes fully AI generated made by a
small creative team inside their
platform. They are calling it the
world's first AI streaming platform.
Short films, series, all made with AI,
all watchable right now. And it's
already pulled over 1 million views on
YouTube. The whole thing was made inside
Cinema Studio on Hicksfield. Here's what
caught me. I run Lingua Marina, a
channel for English non-native speakers.
And right now it has 8.8 million
subscribers. And we've been
experimenting with a cartoon version of
me teaching English. The thing that
breaks every AI video workflow is
consistency. Your character looks
different in every shot. Hicksfield
built something called Soul Cast. You
design your AI actor once, appearance,
era, outfit, archetype. And that
character holds across every single
shot. Up to three characters per scene,
locked before you touch anything else.
Then you build a shot sequence, prompt,
image, 3D scene, camera movement, genre,
multi-shot assembly. Color grading is
built in film grain, bloom, exposure.
You finish the entire look without
leaving the platform. Cast to cut, one
workflow. And one more thing, Cloud is
coming to Hicksfield very soon. Stay
tuned on that. Link is in the
description.
>> We don't know what happens to economy
with free labor.
The moment you have free labor, do you
get abundance and everything is just
available because it's so cheap to
produce?
Or something else happens. We don't have
any good studies on what happens to
value of fiat currency with free labor?
What happens to cryptocurrencies?
What happens to
other investments? So, do stocks in
non-AI companies go down?
Do stocks in AI companies go up? We
don't have any understanding of that
space.
So, generally it's a It's a idea to have
wealth and to have it early. You'll
still have more time to
grow it.
But, it may be the case that traditional
paths to accumulate wealth, just having
a job, may not be available.
>> But, do you think our society wouldn't
be as like it wouldn't adjust that fast
to this new like our governments, they
wouldn't let this happen or
humans feel I don't know. Like I can't
imagine that in 3 years there's no way
to make money.
>> I I didn't say that.
I I said traditional pathways where you
get a job as a junior programmer may not
be available to you. There are always
other opportunities. AI is a great
assistant to start a company.
>> Yeah.
>> If you have a team 35 people right now,
I can have 35 agents working for me for
free. A lawyer, an accountant, Lego
designer, web designer.
That's an opportunity we never had
before.
>> That's also true, but then I think what
prevents an LLM from seeing a gap in the
market, creating a business to fill that
gap, and making all the money for
whoever made that model. Do you ever
think about that?
>> Models are not limited to whoever made
them. We all get access to open source
models, typically a few months after the
top model, private model is released.
>> That's true, but also
I've seen that I've heard this theory
where, for example, if you're talking to
a particular chat LLM, it collects all
the data about your business, and then
the goal for the owner of that model is
to just identify those opportunities and
take over them.
Do you believe that?
>> Luckily, the scale is very different.
So, if Sam Altman is trying to raise $6
trillion,
your mom-and-pop business is not exactly
his target to overtake.
>> But, if it's the whole market where
mom-and-pop businesses thrive. I don't
know. Like
like car sales, whatever. Like where he
takes over the whole industry.
>> I think the bigger concern is automation
of labor, not that an evil human will
use AI to your business process. It may
happen, no doubt it happened before AI,
but I don't think that's where the big
damage will come from.
>> How many years do you give
entrepreneurs?
>> So, there is two very different question
we should be talking about. One is kind
of business as usual economics and how
we trying to understand what works in
new economy. The real problem and that's
kind of what I'm talking about in some
of my research is are we still around?
Are we all dead? Is super intelligence
going to take us out?
>> I really I can't imagine a world where
we have, I don't know, one country, one
company owning everything cuz that's
when everything disappears, right? How
how does humanity disappear? I know AGI
and it starts within one company. If one
company reaches AGI earlier than other
companies, then it takes over the whole
world. How do I utilize the years that I
have left then?
>> I I think it's good idea to do things
which you always postpone. So, a lot of
people I don't have think, I'll retire
in 50 years and that's when I'm going to
really live my life, have fun and all of
that. And sometimes it doesn't work out.
Sometimes we die of cancer at 40.
So, try to do things you like sooner and
not do things you don't care about at
all.
>> But what when it comes to career, right?
For a lot of people careers but this is
interesting, right? So, some people like
this is my hobby, right? I love that it
pays the bills, but also I would do it
anyway. I would find something else, but
I would just still have these
conversations. Isn't that amazing? If
labor is free, then anyone can just do
their hobby. For some people it's
gardening, for some people it's having
kids and just spending time with their
kids.
From what I've experienced so far, like
my life has become easier just because
there are so many decisions I don't want
to be making like
choosing your insurance or thinking
about how to optimize taxes so whatever
immigration.
Uh now AI solves it for me. I stopped
missing days when my kids have to wear
pajamas at school because they would
always send us these long emails. Now I
just asked Gemini to put everything in
my calendar. So I wake up in the morning
I know it's pajama day today. I used to
forget a lot of it. So now my life is
getting easier and if I could do this
podcast and you know, it's
cheaper for me to have my team or
whatever. Like isn't isn't that a great
world?
>> Right, but you're using word AI to mean
completely different things. You're
referring to narrow tool you're using
right now to summarize your email and
you're also kind of using it as future
super intelligence smarter than all of
us combined.
>> Mhm.
>> Not the same technology. AI tools,
narrow AI is awesome. I use it all the
time. We should have more of it. We can
use it to solve real problems like
pajama day.
>> Mhm.
>> But if we create general super
intelligence, we don't understand it, we
cannot predict it, we cannot control it.
It has capability of wiping out
humanity.
>> Can you talk about how do we create is
that AGI? Is that the
>> AGI is a precursor. So AGI is basically
automation of human cognitive labor.
It's a scientist, it's an engineer. Then
artificial scientist and engineer start
doing AI research, very quickly progress
goes hyper exponential. We have systems
not just smarter than any human in any
domain, but smarter than all of us in
all domains.
Think someone with IQ of a million. We
have no concept for that. We're like, oh
Einstein was 200
many standard deviations away from the
norm.
So the cognitive gap is something like
humans versus squirrels.
Squirrels have no concept of what we're
doing, how we can harm them, traps,
poisons, none of it makes sense to them.
That would be very similar. We have
systems capable of doing novel science,
discovering novel physics. And if for
whatever reason they decide to take us
out,
I don't know what the reason could be.
It could be
to protect them from creation of
competing super intelligence. It could
be to lower temperature of a planet, to
improve compute. Could be something I
cannot even think about. But if they
decide to do that, we cannot stop them.
>> Can we instill the right values into AI?
>> If you have a book of right values, you
would be doing really well. We don't.
Philosophers have spent millennia trying
to agree on a set of ethical values. We
don't.
We disagree by religion, by region, by
basically time in the history of
humanity. What was ethical 100 years ago
is considered completely unacceptable
today. What we believe is ethical today,
likewise, will be unacceptable in the
future.
If we somehow manage to agree on static
ethics, not dynamically changing, but
static, we have 8 billion agents who
don't agree on much. And then, if we
manage to agree and keep it static, we
don't know how to code it up cuz we
don't program AI models. They are
self-learning from data we supply.
>> But if you supply data, this is your
like personal constitution, right? You
don't kill humans, you work for humans,
you work for
>> So, this is science fiction as the guy
who wrote three laws of robotics. And he
wrote that exactly to demonstrate that
will never work, it will always fail. It
creates interesting science fiction, but
if you have a super intelligent lawyer,
you're not going to fool them. Every one
of those terms is self-contradictory.
It's ill-defined. What does it mean not
to harm a human?
Is the system fighting you eating a
donut because it's unhealthy? Is the
system banning abortion? It's not
obvious what you encode in that meaning.
So, people often say, "Do good. Don't do
bad." Great, but now define what that
means in C++.
>> I feel like if it's super intelligent,
it will be able to
>> It's a very common misconception. People
think if something is smart, it's also
good, and it has common sense. But
common sense is not common. Human common
sense is not common. What is obviously
true in one culture is horrible crime in
another.
>> Yeah.
>> If I say to a system
I don't want any cancer in this world.
Cancer is bad. One solution is to kill
all humans. It accomplishes the goal.
>> But then it's against the Constitution.
Like we don't kill. We try to prolong
life.
>> Right. And the worst dictatorships in
the world all had constitutions which
were beautiful.
>> Mhm.
>> If a human dictator can find a way to
bypass
any regulation
a super intelligent lawyer
with no
way for us to punish it it's immortal.
It has no body to put in prison.
It's smarter than you. You can't turn it
off.
It's not an option.
It has backups.
>> Mhm.
>> So, I don't think in any adversarial
relationship we would be competitive. We
would lose.
So, the only way to
not lose is not to play the game.
We can benefit from creating narrow
systems. Very practical advice for your
audience.
Create tools for solving real world
problems. Cure breast cancer. Wonderful.
But if you create general super
intelligence which is right now goal of
many corporations we're all going to
regret it.
>> How do you create something that cures
cancer without
creating this general intelligence? Cuz
as far as I understand I interviewed
Priscilla Chan who has Biohub and
they're trying to map the cell. And so
far even with the AI tools I think
they're only able to map like one person
of cell. Cuz there's so much going on. I
feel like you need the most intelligent
system to go that deep. Is it even
possible to create something something
that only works in a cell but doesn't
understand the world?
>> The hope is it's possible. We have some
precedents. So, protein folding problem
was a major problem in science. Very
important for curing diseases,
understanding human genome. And it was
solved with a system which was dedicated
to that problem. It was trained on
relevant data. It wasn't trained in all
of internet. It's at the same time not a
chess player, not a politician, not a
poker player. It has one task and one
type of data.
If you make it super capable, eventually
there is a fuzzy boundary between a tool
and an agent. So, long term it could
still be dangerous and combination of
tools can be dangerous. But, it's
definitely much easier for us to
understand and control something narrow
domain versus something completely
general with full set of capabilities.
>> But, the a company like again, protein
folding is DeepMind and DeepMind, I
guess, is working on super intelligence,
right? It's same people. I feel like
it's impossible to stop this.
>> I don't disagree with you.
>> So,
for anyone who's watching, who's
concerned about this, is there anything
they can do? Cuz from what I'm hearing,
okay, someone's going to reach the super
intelligence.
Uh I just trust them. I hope. I Well,
like I mean, what what can I do?
>> If you're enjoying this episode and if
you want to stay relevant in the era of
AI or at least understand what's going
on, please follow this channel. I sit
down with the most amazing guests every
single week to learn about AI. And the
thing is, when I sit down with people
like Roman, I do care if it goes live,
but also like having these conversations
is really important for my mental health
to understand what's going on, to be
prepared because I like to stay in
control, right? And at least be able to
do something with this information. So,
if you're like me and you want to tune
in, please do not forget to subscribe to
this channel.
>> So, there's a common assumption people
make. They
think that people working on this
technology understand what they are
doing. They have no idea. They publicly
say it. They don't understand how the
system works. They cannot predict it.
They cannot fully control it. The best
they can do is put some filters in
place.
Don't talk about this topic. Don't say
that word.
So, depending on who the member of your
audience is, maybe there is nothing they
can do. If they see someone in positions
of leadership, political or in a
company, they can make those decisions,
what to build, what not to build.
>> I just wonder, cuz again, if we take
those large companies, they work for
shareholders, they're all competing with
each other. The only way to win is to
reach super intelligence, right? Cuz
there's no other way to win this game.
>> Well, you can make a lot of money curing
real problems in the real world. You
don't have to create super intelligence
to get most of economic benefit.
>> It feels like once you reach super
intelligence, you you're able to solve
able to build businesses, you're able to
cure cancer,
and just solve every problem in the
world. Isn't that
>> Except controlling it.
>> Which seems like a big problem. No
amount of money
is a good investment if you're going to
be dead.
>> Have you ever Like have you seen a
leader
uh of those companies or similar
companies who are committed to doing
what you're describing?
>> So, they all on record, even before they
became CEOs of those companies, are
saying AI safety is very important, this
is very dangerous, and likely to kill
us.
More recently, many of them have
indicated that if others stop, they
would stop.
>> And then
>> CEO of Anthropic made a statement
exactly that. I think China versus US,
likewise, China said we are interested
in doing it right. The Communist Party
doesn't want to lose power.
So, they would be open to slowing down
if US did.
>> But nobody nobody's doing that. They're
just saying that.
>> We're still alive, we should try. We
cannot give up.
>> It feels like we need to have a nuclear
level accident for people to actually
start paying attention.
>> We considered that. Unfortunately,
people don't learn from those. We had
nuclear war. We had nuclear bombs
dropped on civilian population, and we
continued developing nuclear weapons and
spreading them to new countries.
>> But at least we haven't used them since.
And that
>> So far.
>> at that scale. So
>> Give it some time.
>> Hopefully, hopefully not.
>> Sadly, really sadly, something like that
would reduce our technological
capabilities for a while. So, while we
would suffer tremendously from a weapon
of mutual assured destruction like
nuclear weapon, we would not deal with
another mutually assured destruction
coming from superintelligence.
>> What is your personal view on the next 5
years? What do you think is going to
happen?
>> More of what we see, automation of more
and more capabilities, and very likely
we'll fully cross
the human intelligence barrier. We'll
have systems smarter than
smartest humans.
>> How do you prepare for that?
>> You always ask questions assuming there
is an answer. Some things are impossible
to do. If you ask me how to build
perpetual motion device,
I would not say I need more funding or
more time. I would say it is impossible
to do. So, if you ask me how do we
control superintelligent machines, I
don't think we can.
If we build them, there is nothing you
can do. If we made a smart decision
against financial incentives not to
build it,
to benefit from narrow tools,
then
how do I learn more about those tools?
How do I deploy them? Those are great
questions.
>> Since you know, like you you know the
worst-case scenario, right? And you know
it's very, very possible.
You're basically going on podcasts and
talking about this problem, right? To
raise more awareness. But someone who
doesn't have an ability to go and just
talk about it, what can they do? Stop
using those tools? Stop buying stocks of
those companies? Like what is a
practical thing?
>> So, if you have a chance to vote for a
politician who is on board with limits,
and we're starting to see those.
>> It's so like I don't really see
politicians talking about this. What I
see is like don't regulate AI. Let's
just let come in here.
>> government is exactly like that right
now where they removed all previous
regulations. They made it through
executive order illegal for all 50
states to regulate AI, but we have
certain senators, certain congress
people now waking up to at least some of
those problems. They may not fully
comprehend long-term game, but they are
going or deep fakes about or maybe the
large data centers will use too much
energy. It doesn't matter what they are
concerned about. They sort of
directionally correct.
>> Mhm.
>> So they are suggesting limits. They are
suggesting some regulation. It's true
for other countries. I testified to UK
Parliament. I testified to Kentucky
legislation. There are people who are
willing to listen, but it needs to be
a lot of support from people where
politicians can sort of come out of the
closet and say, "I'm worried about super
intelligence. I want to make sure we
pass the right legislation."
>> It's just I feel like even on a personal
level it's so hard. I'm just imagining
like, "Okay, you're going you're going
voting for this politician who's pausing
whatever super intelligence." But then
you have someone in your family who has
cancer and you know that if this
progresses, then your family member
might survive for a couple years. And as
humans, we'd enter prioritize short-term
gains over long-term threats.
>> Yeah.
>> How do you see this possible when like
if Okay, so in the US, I feel like 70%
of people are kind of have negative
attitude towards AI according to Edelman
Trust Barometer, but in countries like
China, I feel like 80% are pro AI.
How do you see this cuz it feels to me
that people who are who are going to be
voting for those politicians, they're
still going to be a minority.
>> So you said long-term versus short-term.
>> Short-term gains versus long-term
threats.
>> I understand. And historically, you
would be right. It's 20 years away, 30
years away, and this is now.
Cancer is measured by 5-year survival
rate. We are saying AGI is coming in 2
to 5.
So there is no time difference. Your
cancer relative is going to be dealing
with one of those outcomes no matter
what.
>> I feel like for people it's so much
easier to understand cancer cuz we
already saw it. We haven't seen AGI yet
and we don't understand it. And we still
think, again, even with AI, like you've
seen these graphs where only 1% of
people really use it to optimize things.
99% of people have no idea or like 90
per 90% haven't used it. 10% use it for
search. It's just so hard to imagine
that in 2 years or like 5 years, it's
going to be a human threat. And you
think people who are building it won't
be able to control it.
>> They have nothing. There is no patents,
no papers, no algorithms which can
possibly scale. They're literally
telling us we'll figure it out when we
get there.
>> Okay.
As a mom of two, if you're saying that,
okay, I'm
I I'm talking about this, you know, I
don't know any politicians who are who
are talking about this. But anyways,
when it comes to our day-to-day life,
if we're all
facing a future we can't really predict,
what is the best thing to do now? Enjoy
life?
>> It's all we can do.
If I'm completely wrong, you're going to
regret having awesome time.
>> [laughter]
>> Uh okay, that that actually makes me
feel better.
What about
using AI? Do you feel like by using AI
we're helping that progress or
>> We do, but unless all of us stop, it
doesn't matter. You alone will not
financially impact development. The
investors, independent of what the
membership fees are. I think Open AI is
making like, I don't know, 13 billion,
but investments are in the trillions.
So, it's just not a significant source
of
>> What should people be investing in?
I I I've heard you say invest in Bitcoin
cuz it it has a finite supply.
Uh would you say investing in stocks,
gold
>> Invest in something AI cannot make more
of.
So, if AI can just produce more of it,
that's probably going to go down in
value.
>> Gold is a wonderful example, yeah. There
is limited supply of it, but it's not so
limited that if a price goes up, we
cannot produce more of it. Some of the
gold is
minable, but it costs a lot more than
current price per ounce. So, let's say
right now we are at I don't know 4,500
or whatever it is. If price of gold was
a million,
we can get a lot more gold at that price
point. Whereas Bitcoin, it doesn't
matter what the price is. It's exactly
the same supply.
>> What about real estate?
>> It seems like we are not very good at
making more waterfronts. Countries like
United Arab Emirates with Dubai
definitely tried. I think Qatar has some
good examples of artificial islands, but
it's very limited. So, I think long-term
having a place to be and limited ability
to produce more could be a good
investment.
>> Yeah, it's the just the way that I see
it. So, for me, when I'm hearing this,
super intelligence still super
intelligence still seems very far away,
but what I actually can feel is
automation of this white-collar labor.
And it looks like
I think in 5 years, yes, we're going to
have more automated jobs, but again,
when I'm talking to people like I don't
know Mustafa Suleyman, right? He says AI
is going to produce more jobs than uh it
takes away. Uh I just talked to LinkedIn
CEO and they saw 1.2 million new jobs
because of AI cuz you're requiring new
skill set. Yes, some jobs are going
away, but I I don't know. I just can't
believe a future where is that drastic.
>> Well, let's just go with definitions.
So, then we say we'll create artificial
general intelligence. What are we
saying? We're saying we'll have a system
capable of doing what a human can do.
>> But we still haven't
We're like we have automated some tasks,
but are we even able to create that?
>> So, it's a very different question. Are
you arguing that it's impossible to ever
get software to human-level performance?
>> Yeah.
>> It seems very unlikely.
Some people have argued it usually from
some sort of religious perspective. We
have an immortal soul, nothing material
can automate that, but it seems in many
domains we started with not knowing how
to do it, got to reasonable performance,
got to human level, and now in most
domains it's super intelligent. So, a
human will never win a game of chess
against a computer again.
Same happens in artificial general
intelligence means the system can do
anything a human can do.
>> Mhm.
>> So, if we live in a world where that is
true, let's say in 2 years, 5 years,
whatever number makes you happy,
what jobs will be there? Jobs where I
choose to hire a human.
>> Yeah.
>> But, that's it.
If I don't care who does it, then it
gets automated.
>> So, basically the plan is then,
uh within the next few months, identify
those jobs, right? And for me it's
definitely a nanny, right? I don't want
a robot. Well, my husband's like
a robot is even more precise if it
teaches your kids how to swim. So, my
husband's like you like closer to
to what you're thinking.
Uh well, can you name
let's say five jobs
>> Yeah.
>> that are still going to be relevant.
>> Oldest profession.
Must be the last one, too.
>> Uh I don't know. I've heard a lot of
people say how it's getting robotized.
>> It is, and there's going to be a huge
market for it, just like we see with
virtual stimuli, but I think humans will
always have certain weak spot for human
females.
>> Okay, I don't think my target audience
really wants to
switch to that job. Can you give me four
more?
>> Anything similar where a human is a
sensei, a guide, a leader, someone who
is personally uh trainer for you
becoming a human like that.
>> Mhm. So, nannies?
>> So, so again, your yoga teacher,
your I don't know, hiking guru.
>> Mhm.
>> Whatever
>> Or like
>> meditation expert. Experts in what it's
like to be human in certain domains
where it's not so much about algorithmic
following of steps, but an experience,
maybe.
>> Do you think for people who are starting
their personal brands now, there's still
opportunity or the
it's already done?
>> There is, but you have to do it pretty
quickly. You have to become somewhat
recognizable before AI is better than
you and you are competing now as a
nobody with something better.
>> And that gives you how long?
>> Again, as soon as we switch to human
level or above. So, I don't know how
long it's going to take in practice. I
see him people say 2027, 2020, 2018,
2030. All of those numbers have been
suggested by people who are not insane.
>> So, would you say if you have goals
right now within your certain job that
you think is going to be automated, you
need to be running as fast as you can
right now
to reach those goals.
Or just chill. Just because whatever it
is in 5 years, we're all gone.
>> Ideally, it's like what you did where
you combine your hobby with something
financially lucrative. That's the best.
If you can get paid for doing what you
like and it benefits society,
that's the concept behind ikigai, right?
Japanese concept. You try to combine
those. We call it I risks, ikigai risks,
where that meaning is taken from you by
AI. So, you want to kind of grandfather
yourself in as a famous podcaster.
>> Well, how do you think about your career
as a researcher? Is it done or you still
have a couple more years?
>> So, it seems right now the writing of
code is pretty much automatable. Still
top humans in machine learning are
designing new architectures, new
systems. So, few more years in that.
But, I wouldn't recommend someone spend
10 years at the university to become a
professor today. I don't think they have
future.
>> What about higher education in general?
Should I be saving for my kids' college?
>> It's always been a bad idea.
>> Really?
>> It's not worth it.
So, half the majors were dead-end
majors. They never got jobs in the major
they got. And the ones which were like
for specific tasks like programming and
such, you could have gotten a
certificate online in 6 months and get a
job in Silicon Valley making more than
your professor.
>> But, don't you think it teaches you how
to think? So, for me like I started my
university when I was 17. I had no idea
who what Actually, I wanted to become a
translator. I love languages. I'm like,
I want to be a translator. My parents
were like, "No, no, no. You're going to
go study mathematics." But, I'm glad
they they told me that cuz I was able to
both.
And for me those 5 years were about
meeting my husband,
>> Mhm.
>> starting a business because I saw an
opportunity being among those students.
And so, I feel like when it comes to
education, it's really not about
learning the skill cuz yes, I studied
mathematics. Did I use it in my
business? Not really, but it taught me
how to think. It taught me how to
interact with professors, which is
certain skill that you need. Um
it taught me how to learn and how to be
among students.
>> Yeah.
>> Do you feel this is going to lose value
in 10 years? Or is it going to be a
different form?
>> Then, I don't know how long you went to
college, but I'm sure you didn't pay
100,000 a year. This is what they're
charging now in some universities. So,
historically, it made sense. You went to
socialize. You went to kind of mature,
grow up.
Today, for 100,000, you have alternative
ways of meeting your spouse,
socializing, join a private club, join
gym membership, go to a scientific
conference, go to a TED Talk. You'll
accomplish all those things without
spending 5 years and half a million
dollars.
>> When you say that, I feel like people to
to that, you need agency. You need to be
able to tell yourself this my plan and
stick to the plan.
For a 17-year-old, it's so much easier
to just be put into an institution for 4
years that tells you what to do. And
sometimes it doesn't have to cost like a
hundred thousand. Like if you're doing
PhD, it's sponsored for you, right? By
>> You usually don't start with PhD.
>> Well, you don't you don't start with
PhD. I agree. But then you can I don't
know, you can study in Germany. I got a
scholarship that paid for my studies,
which was great. So, I I don't know.
Like I've heard from you, I've heard
from Mustafa Suleyman that colleges
don't make sense. I'm still I I started
a 529 accounts for for my daughters cuz
I feel like I don't know. It's It's just
Yes, it's not a must, but it's such a
great opportunity to go and study for
years and
>> So, I meet a lot of students and here's
what I hear a lot lately.
I went to college for 4 years to learn
this trade.
I paid a lot of money. I wasted 4 years
of my life not doing fun things I
wanted. I now graduate and there is no
job waiting for me.
>> Mhm.
>> My job has been automated.
What should I do? And at this point, I
want to tell them go back in time 4
years and not get that degree. You
wasted it. And
ask today, again, let's set aside the
existential
problems.
What will be the case in 4 years, 5
years, 6 years when you graduate in the
market? Will this job exist?
If you're not doing it for training,
you're not doing it for a job, you want
to become a Renaissance man, you just
want liberal arts education, I think you
can get it cheaper
with less BS.
>> Yeah, but this
I don't feel like a lot of people have
agency. Like I don't I'm not sure about
my daughters if they if I tell them
like, "Hey, I give you this money that I
saved for college and you go do
whatever." I'm not sure a 17-year-old
will make a good decision. Like I wanted
it to be a translator. Again, like going
back to me being 17, I wanted to be a
singer, a translator. Like I'm so glad
my parents told me, "You're going to
study mathematics."
What are you telling your kids? I don't
know.
>> So, the examples you give, you're saying
this 17-year-old, you cannot trust them
to make a good decision. We're telling
them go take a loan, borrow half a
million dollars, and see if you can
graduate with this that degree.
>> Let's Let's talk about where they start.
>> a company,
they wouldn't give them a loan.
>> So, are your kids going to college or
not?
>> Uh my oldest is 17, so he's going to
decide next year.
>> What are you telling him?
>> He is lucky in that his both parents are
professors, so he'll get it for free.
And free makes it a much sweeter deal.
>> So, free education is fine. So, if
somebody gets a scholarship to do their
bachelor's, you'll tell them go ahead.
>> a much easier
investment, right?
>> Well, it's your time still, 4 years. You
could have been doing something else.
>> Right. And that's the question. What is
the alternative? If you want to start a
company, if you want to do something
else, I'll support you more in that
direction. But, if you just want to be a
doctor, go ahead, fine.
>> So, when it comes to education, I feel
like we we touched upon this topic,
agency is so important in knowing how
what you will be doing and how you'll be
doing. How do you How does one work on
agency?
How do you prevent AI
from making decisions for you?
>> So, it's interesting that you realized
this important distinction, tools versus
agents. That's the game changer.
And we are about to create AI agents,
which will
be doing it for us.
But, then we ask, well, how do we make
humans who are independent agents?
It helps to have good examples, so your
daughters
may look at you and see your mom is
doing all that cool stuff. Maybe they'll
learn by example.
But, it's not guaranteed. Some of it may
be biological. You're just not
predisposed to this type of activities.
>> Are you teaching your kids that?
>> I always taught them to be very
independent and make their own
decisions. My job was to make sure they
are safe. Safety and security. But
anything else, they make their own
money, they decide how to spend it, how
to invest it, everything.
>> How early did you start? With that like
make money spend
>> 3 years old, 2 years old, I don't know.
Like you want money.
>> So basically go and ask your kids to
start a business, right?
>> Absolutely.
>> sell popcorn, lemonade, whatever.
>> Whatever they can figure it out, yeah.
>> Yeah, I feel like that's one of the
qualities when all the jobs are taken
away, right? This is something that will
help us survive and find the Ikigai.
>> I think so, but again, I think Ikigai
meaning economic problems are all kind
of
second level
in comparison to existential risks. If
we're not surviving, doesn't matter. We
need to figure out how to make sure
humans are primary.
We are not replaced, we are not
automated away, and we control our
destiny.
>> Can you give me probabilities? Like in 5
years, one scenario, super intelligence,
uncontrollable, the world is ending or
whatever.
In 5 years, second scenario,
we unionized, we protected a lot of jobs
like teachers, doctors, cuz we still
feel they are needed as humans, not as
robots, and countries still can't agree
how we're going to regulate this, and
we're still like in a pretty normal
world. Well, give me probabilities.
>> So so I think we'll gradually go towards
that human level super intelligent
point, and as we walk towards it, more
and more jobs will be automated, and
maybe we'll have protections for certain
human jobs. I think New York State was
about to suggest legislation to make it
illegal for LLMs to talk about any
licensed professions. No psychiatry, no
law, no CPAs, nothing like that. I don't
know if it's going to pass. It's New
York State, it's going to pass.
>> And then you just use a Chinese alarm.
Like I don't see this.
>> Exactly. But here's the problem. Even if
we agree not to build it right now,
right now we can regulate it because
it's very expensive. Those projects are
like Manhattan project. They are
noticeable. You see the electricity use,
you see computer use.
Problem is every year it gets cheaper
and cheaper to train very powerful
models. So if today you need a trillion
dollars, next year it's a billion. At
some point you can do it on a laptop.
And at that point you can't stop all the
psychopaths in the world of
who will try to do it.
So eventually we're going to have this
technology developed.
>> So eventually scenario number one. But
in five years, what's the probability of
scenario number one?
>> So I think in five years we'll
definitely get to human-level
intelligence.
But whatever the system decides to
strike against us immediately or not is
not obvious.
Given theoretically it has no pressure
to strike right away. It can accumulate
more resources, make more backups, allow
us to surrender more control because we
trust it.
>> Mhm.
>> It's immortal. It can wait. 10 years, 50
years, 1,000 years and just take over by
being friendly.
>> Yeah.
So that's an option.
And you say if it's immortal and it has
all the time in the world,
do you feel like efforts like talking to
your local politicians are even going to
help?
>> We need more time no matter what. It's a
good thing to have more time for this
problem. Maybe we'll find some different
architectures. Maybe
uh maybe we'll just get in to enjoy more
time.
>> For everyone who's building right now,
do you think software is dead? Uh for
example, if I'm building an app,
and if I can just write code the same
app, wouldn't everyone be just talking
to their LLM, whatever they prefer, to
just build them an app or help them
solve the problems?
>> So if you're already big and famous,
you're kind of locked in. We saw it with
social media. I mean, to write code to
do something like what Twitter does is
trivial.
>> Mhm.
>> But people end up buying it for 40
billion instead of just coding it up.
Cuz what you have is the network. You
have people, all the relationship that
you cannot automate. So, if I'm first
mover in that space and I have an app
which does something no one has done
before, doesn't matter how many clones
I'm going to get in the same market,
they're not going to take over.
>> Advice for everyone who's worried about
their future.
>> You're not worried enough. If you were
worried enough and fully understand the
problem, we would have people in the
streets
protesting and more than 100 people we
had last week in San Francisco.
>> You're like my husband. We were just in
New York and we were talking to the
founder of Duolingo.
And he's like, "No, no, no, people are
still going to like and a lot of people
in New York like, "No, no, no, it's
fine."
He's like, "They just don't understand."
And they're like, "Oh, you live in a
bubble."
He's like, "No, we're not."
And last one, are we in a simulation and
if yes, who's behind it?
>> We are in a simulation. Simulators.
>> Who are they?
>> We don't know from inside.
You have to escape from the simulation
to find out. That's the ultimate
scientific question. What is outside the
simulation?
>> Well, that's I feel like that's a topic
for another podcast. Thank you so much,
Roman. If you enjoyed this episode,
there's actually another person I really
want you to listen to. I did an episode
with Mustafa Suleyman who's also a
philosopher. So, he's kind of similar to
Roman. We talked a lot about the future.
He's much more positive but he has the
same take on education. Don't save for
your kids' college. So, thank you so
much for tuning into this episode and
now tune in and listen to Mustafa. Thank
you.